---
title: "CONTEXT-AWARE SEMANTIC TEXT MINING AND REPRESENTATION LEARNING
FOR TEXT DISAMBIGUATION AND ONLINE HARASSMENT CLASSIFICATION"
collection: talks
type: "Research"
permalink: /talks/2012-03-01-talk-1
venue: "Computer Science Department, Dalhousie University"
date: 2022-03-01
location: "Canada"
---

Our contribution can be divided into two main parts; the first
part focuses on the text ambiguity problem, and the second part focuses on the text classification
problem, which are two related tasks in NLP. While analyzing and designing algorithms for text
understanding and representation learning, we introduce algorithms to better understand the
text and its exact meaning when there are different possible meanings for words present in the
text. This problem has been known in NLP as a Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) problem. In
the first part of this thesis, we analyze the effect of different current available methods in text
embedding on the WSD task, and based on the observations and experiments, we introduce a
new method for text representation learning. In addition to general English text, to evaluate
our method, we analyze the effect of our representation on Biomedical text as an application.
This analysis shows how effective these embeddings are in capturing the context when we are
looking to find the correct meaning behind the words in biomedical texts. We also investigate
the problem of text classification in this study. Text classification is one other relevant problem
in NLP to the problem of WSD. We consider a collection of tweet posts and try to classify them
into two classes, one if a tweet includes harassment, and the other is the class of tweets without
harassment. We apply classical machine learning approaches and show the effects and differences
between them. In addition to this binary classification investigation, we focus on the first class,
the tweets including harassment. We analyze the tweets and classify which type of harassment
is a tweet using classical machine learning approaches, including logistic regression, Gaussian
naive Bayes, decision trees, support vector machines, random forest, multi-layer perceptron, and
AdaBoost in chapter five. The last chapter uses a deep learning approach, the graph convolution
approach, to solve this problem. Our experiments show how effective using this deep learning
method is compared to the previous classical machine learning approache
